# project2

“Low and moderate doses of alcohol have been reported to increase overall affective expression, happiness, euphoria, conviviality and pleasant and carefree feelings.” (Baum-Baicker C. Drug Alcohol Depend, 1985 Aug;15(4):305-22.).
	Extracted two csv’s from the data source website: Kaggle.com. The data from the world happiness ratings csv used data from the Gallup World Poll. These scores were based on answers to the main life evaluation question asked in a poll. The rankings became based off of the following information: GDP per Capita, Family, Life Expectancy, Freedom, Generosity, Trust Government Corruption. These describe the extent to which these factors contribute in evaluating the happiness in each country. The Alcohol Consumption csv got their data from WHO, World Health Organization. The csv took all national data on average alcohol consumption per capita for those age 15 and over in each country. WHO used government records and statistics from the alcohol industry and the United Nation’s Food and Agriculture Organization databases.
	Data was transformed by deleting unnecessary columns and joining the two csv’s by their primary key: country using python in jupyter notebook. The happiness csv columns extracted: country, happiness rank (rank of the country based on the Happiness Score) and happiness score (A metric measured in 2015 by asking the sampled people the question: "How would you rate your happiness on a scale of 0 to 10 where 10 is the happiest."). The alcohol csv columns extracted: country and total liters of pure alcohol consumed per person per year. The data was cleaned as well. In one csv the country was United States and the other was USA, to equate for these errors a lambda function was used within map pandas. Then the two separate csv’s were merged on country into one csv on an inner join. 
	The final step was our process of writing data into the target database. The database chosen to store the final merged dataset was SQL. SQL was chosen because the data was very structured. SQL is standardized and provides a level of predictability and utility. SQL allows us to link information with the help of the primary key, “country”. This is an interesting, complex data set that could have a lot of unique foreign keys and database transactions. It is important to make sure that all our transactions are processed reliably which is why we choose a relational database.
	 
	The final data to look at consisted of the world’s countries and the amount of alcohol consumed per person and how it correlated with the country’s happiness ranking. This was looked at because alcohol in moderate amounts is effective in reducing stress but heavy drinkers and people who never drink have higher rates of clinical depression than do people who drink moderately.
